---
layout: post
title: UN-Global Pulse, Volunteer Developer
description: Investigate Wikipedia as a Big Data source to inform Child Marriage Policy.
image: assets/images/UNGP.png 
---
I volunteered as a developer with UN Global Pulse, the big data arm of United Nations. The task was an exploration of possible big-data sources that could inform future policy decisions. For this pilot project, Child Marriage was chosen as the topic of interest and Wikipedia as the big-data source. The objective being, establishing methods and verifying the ways by which Wikipedia as a big-data source could be explored and understood.

We wanted to answer questions like : are some aspects of child marriage fiercely debated? Demographic aspects of its participants? Are some language wikis more comprehensive than others etc.? I also looked into the dynamics of socially generated content of how trolls, vandals and editors protecting their turf interacted. The conclusions from this study would be applied to actual policy decisions on Child Marriage and this was my first experience dealing with something of this scale.

I build exploratory data analysis tools and visualizations that would go on top of them. PyWikiBot, a python library was used to build the crawlers that gathered content for analysis. The scrips have helped establish Wikipedia as a viable big-data source, while the visualizations like 'edit-wars' between wiki participants, seasonal edd and flows of the page traffic and the network analysis bring forth a broader picture.

<b>To read about the project and my contribution on UN Global Pulse blog, follow <a href="http://www.unglobalpulse.org/news/%20big-data-exploration-project-child-marriage-project-design-phase" >this link</a>.</b>

<b>Have a look at the project scripts on GitHub <a href="https://github.com/she1991/UNGlobalPulse_WikipediaTools">here</a>.</b>
